With the same use cases as Spark Streaming,
Spark introduced structure streaming which is built on top of Spark SQL.
Since dataframe and dataset are the core building blocks of spark SQL component,
we can apply the same operations we use on
Spark dataframes and dataset to structure streaming.
One thing to note about structure streaming is that it
doesn't have the notion of the batch processing.
Instead, structure streaming receives data by a trigger,
and the data is appended to the data stream which is continuously flowing.
Each row of a data stream is processed unlike a batch processing system,
and then the result is updated into the unbounded result table.
This is a simple demo for structure streaming using a console output.
We'll learn more about in next lesson for it which I'll put multiple can use.
What this code does is that this takes a JSON file in a JSON folder,
and then it will output the results in the console.
For example, we have the writing stream in the output mode in the console format,
and this depicts that we'll be writing out to the console.
We'll be reading the input files from the JSON folder here,
it's in the text format, but it's actually a JSON format.
The way you can trigger this is that we go to launcher,
and then we're going to open up a terminal,
and we'll use the spark-submit to submit this job.
So we'll just stream in example.py.
This will actually get your file contents here where status equal to processed.
Now, if we go here,
there are input rows.
That's what it's important to look at.
It's saying it process 1,000 rows,
it's only going to show the top 20 rows for default.
Also show the file stream source where it's reading from.
It has trigger execution and process rows per second.
We can tell it's about five seconds to process these because we process 1,000 rows.
In here, what's interesting about
the file stream source is that you will only read a new file.
So all the batches that are coming in future will not have any rosier.
But as soon as I create a duplicate file,
let's just duplicate this,
it will actually read another one because it thinks another data arrived.
So when you write your spark streaming application,
you always need to drop a new file atomically,
for your application to read continuously.
Since each row you can tell each file is containing too many rows,
we'll learn it in next lesson is how to manage the offset.
How many records you can read per second,
and that's it for the demo.